Buildbot 0.7.3 was released 23 May 2006

** compatibility

This release is compatible with Twisted-1.3.0, but the next one will not be.
Please upgrade to at least Twisted-2.0.x soon, as the next buildbot release
will require it.

** new features

*** Mercurial support

Support for Mercurial version control system (http://selenic.com/mercurial)
has been added. This adds a buildbot.process.step.Mercurial BuildStep. A
suitable hook script to deliver changes to the buildmaster is still missing.

*** 'buildbot restart' command

The 'buildbot restart BASEDIR' command will perform a 'buildbot stop' and
'buildbot start', and will attempt to wait for the buildbot process to shut
down in between. This is useful when you need to upgrade the code on your
buildmaster or buildslave and want to take it down for a minimum amount of
time.

*** build properties

Each build now has a set of named "Build Properties", which can be set by
steps and interpolated into ShellCommands. The 'revision' and 'got_revision'
properties are the most interesting ones available at this point, and can be
used e.g. to get the VC revision number into the filename of a generated
tarball. See the user's manual section entited "Build Properties" for more
details.

** minor features

*** IRC now takes password= argument

Useful for letting your bot claim a persistent identity.

*** svn_buildbot.py is easier to modify to understand branches
*** BuildFactory has a new .addStep method
*** p4poller has new arguments
*** new contrib scripts: viewcvspoll, svnpoller, svn_watcher

These poll an external VC repository to watch for changes, as opposed to
adding a hook script to the repository that pushes changes into the
buildmaster. This means higher latency but may be easier to configure,
especially if you do not have authority on the repository host.

*** VC build property 'got_revision'

The 'got_revision' property reports what revision a VC step actually
acquired, which may be useful to know when building from HEAD.

*** improved CSS in Waterfall

The Waterfall display has a few new class= tags, which may make it easier to
write custom CSS to make it look prettier.

*** robots_txt= argument in Waterfall

You can now pass a filename to the robots_txt= argument, which will be served
as the "robots.txt" file. This can be used to discourage search engine
spiders from crawling through the numerous build-status pages.

** bugfixes

*** tests more likely to pass on non-English systems

The unit test suite now sets $LANG='C' to make subcommands emit error
messages in english instead of whatever native language is in use on the
host. This improves the chances that the unit tests will pass on such
systems. This affects certain VC-related subcommands too.

test_vc was assuming that the system time was expressed with a numeric
timezone, which is not always the case, especially under windows. This
probably works better now than it did before. This only affects the CVS
tests.

'buildbot try' (for CVS) now uses UTC instead of the local timezone. The
'got_revision' property is also expressed in UTC. Both should help deal with
buggy versions of CVS that don't parse numeric timezones properly.
