Release Notes for Buildbot 0.8.10
=================================

..
    Any change that adds a feature or fixes a bug should have an entry here.
    Most simply need an additional bulleted list item, but more significant
    changes can be given a subsection of their own.

The following are the release notes for Buildbot 0.8.10.
Buildbot 0.8.10 was released on the 2nd of December, 2014.

Master
------

Features
~~~~~~~~

* Both the P4 source step and P4 change source support ticket-based authentication.

* Clickable 'categories' links added in 'Waterfall' page (web UI).

Fixes
~~~~~

* Buildbot is now compatible with SQLAlchemy 0.8 and higher, using the newly-released SQLAlchemy-Migrate.

* The :bb:step:`HTTPStep` step's request parameters are now renderable.

* Fixed content spoofing vulnerabilities (:bug:`2589`).

* Fixed cross-site scripting in status_json (:bug:`2943`).

* :class:`~buildbot.status.status_gerrit.GerritStatusPush` supports specifying an SSH identity file explicitly.

* Fixed bug which made it impossible to specify the project when using the BitBucket dialect.

* Fixed SVN master-side source step: if a SVN operation fails, the repository end up in a situation when a manual intervention is required.
  Now if SVN reports such a situation during initial check, the checkout will be clobbered.

* Fixed master-side source steps to respect the specified timeout when removing files.

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Changes for Developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


Slave
-----

Features
~~~~~~~~

Fixes
~~~~~

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Details
-------

For a more detailed description of the changes made in this version, see the git log itself:

.. code-block:: bash

   git log v0.8.9..eight
