Release Notes for Buildbot v0.8.7
=================================

..
    Any change that adds a feature or fixes a bug should have an entry here.
    Most simply need an additional bulleted list item, but more significant
    changes can be given a subsection of their own.

The following are the release notes for Buildbot v0.8.7.
Buildbot v0.8.7 was released on September 22, 2012.
Buildbot 0.8.7p1 was released on November 21, 2012.

0.8.7p1
-------

In addition to what's listed below, the 0.8.7p1 release adds the following.

* The ``SetPropertiesFromEnv`` step now correctly gets environment variables from the slave, rather than those set on the master.
  Also, it logs the changes made to properties.

* The master-side ``Git`` source step now doesn't try to clone a branch called ``HEAD``.
  This is what ``git`` does by default, and specifying it explicitly doesn't work as expected.

* The ``Git`` step properly deals with the case when there is a file called ``FETCH_HEAD``
  in the checkout.

* Buildbot no longer forks when told not to daemonize.

* Buildbot's startup is now more robust. See :bug:`1992`.

* The ``Trigger`` step uses the provided list of source stamps exactly, if given, instead of adding them to the sourcestamps of the current build.
  In 0.8.7, they were combined with the source stamps for the current build.

* The ``Trigger`` step again completely ignores the source stamp of the current build, if ``alwaysUseLatest`` is set.
  In 0.8.7, this was mistakenly changed to only ignore the specified revision of the source stamp.

* The ``Triggerable`` scheduler is again properly passing changes through to the scheduled builds.
  See :bug:`2376`.

* Web change hooks log errors, allowing debugging.

* The ``base`` change hook now properly decodes the provided date.

* ``CVSMailDir`` has been fixed.

* Importing ``buildbot.test`` no longer causes python to exit, if ``mock`` isn't installed.
  The fixes ``pydoc -k`` when buildbot is installed.

* ``Mercurial`` properly updates to the correct branch, when using ``inrepo`` branches.

* Buildbot now doesn't fail on invalid UTF-8 in a number of places.

* Many documentation updates and fixes.

Master
------

Features
~~~~~~~~

* Buildbot now supports building projects composed of multiple codebases.  New
  schedulers can aggregate changes to multiple codebases into source stamp sets
  (with one source stamp for each codebase).  Source steps then check out each
  codebase as required, and the remainder of the build process proceeds
  normally.  See the :ref:`Multiple-Codebase-Builds` for details.

  * The format of the ``got_revision`` property has changed for multi-codebase builds.
    It is now a dictionary keyed by codebase.

* ``Source`` and ``ShellCommand`` steps now have an optional ``descriptionSuffix``, a suffix to the
  ``description``/``descriptionDone`` values. For example this can help distinguish between
  multiple ``Compile`` steps that are applied to different codebases.

* The ``Git`` step has a new ``getDescription`` option, which will run ``git describe`` after checkout
  normally.  See :bb:step:`Git` for details.

* A new interpolation placeholder :ref:`Interpolate`, with more regular syntax, is available.

* A new ternary substitution operator ``:?`` and ``:#?`` is available with the ``Interpolate`` class.

* ``IRenderable.getRenderingFor`` can now return a deferred.

* The Mercurial hook now supports multiple masters.  See :pull:`436`.

* There's a new poller for Mercurial: :bb:chsrc:`HgPoller`.

* The new ``HTPasswdAprAuth`` uses libaprutil (through ctypes) to validate
  the password against the hash from the .htpasswd file. This adds support for
  all hash types htpasswd can generate.

* ``GitPoller`` has been rewritten.
  It now supports multiple branches and can share a directory between multiple pollers.
  It is also more resilient to changes in configuration, or in the underlying repository.

* Added a new property ``httpLoginUrl`` to ``buildbot.status.web.authz.Authz``
  to render a nice Login link in WebStatus for unauthenticated users if
  ``useHttpHeader`` and ``httpLoginUrl`` are set.

* ``ForceScheduler`` has been updated:

  * support for multiple :ref:`codebases<Change-Attr-Codebase>` via the ``codebases`` parameter
  * ``NestedParameter`` to provide a logical grouping of parameters.
  * ``CodebaseParameter`` to set the branch/revision/repository/project for a codebase
  * new HTML/CSS customization points. Each parameter is contained in a ``row`` with multiple
    'class' attributes associated with them (eg, 'force-string' and 'force-nested') as well as a unique
    id to use with Javascript. Explicit line-breaks have been removed from the HTML generator and
    are now controlled using CSS.

* The :bb:chsrc:`SVNPoller` now supports multiple projects and codebases.
  See :pull:`443`.

* The :bb:reporter:`MailNotifier` now takes a callable to calculate the "previous" build for purposes of determining status changes.
  See :pull:`489`.

* The ``copy_properties`` parameter, given a list of properties to copy into the new build request, has been deprecated in favor of explicit use of ``set_properties``.

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Buildbot master now requires at least Python-2.5 and Twisted-9.0.0.

* Passing a :py:class:`~buildbot.process.buildstep.BuildStep` subclass (rather than instance) to :py:meth:`~buildbot.process.factory.BuildFactory.addStep` is no longer supported.
  The ``addStep`` method now takes exactly one argument.

* Buildbot master requires ``python-dateutil`` version 1.5 to support the
  Nightly scheduler.

* ``ForceScheduler`` has been updated to support multiple :ref:`codebases<Change-Attr-Codebase>`.
  The branch/revision/repository/project are deprecated; if you have customized these
  values, simply provide them as ``codebases=[CodebaseParameter(name='', ...)]``.

    * The POST URL names for ``AnyPropertyParameter`` fields have changed. For example,
      'property1name' is now 'property1_name', and 'property1value' is now 'property1_value'.
      Please update any bookmarked or saved URL's that used these fields.

    * ``forcesched.BaseParameter`` API has changed quite a bit and is no longer backwards
      compatible. Updating guidelines:

      * ``get_from_post`` is renamed to ``getFromKwargs``

      * ``update_from_post`` is renamed to ``updateFromKwargs``. This function's parameters
        are now called via named parameters to allow subclasses to ignore values it doesn't use.
        Subclasses should add ``**unused`` for future compatibility. A new parameter
        ``sourcestampset`` is provided to allow subclasses to modify the sourcestamp set, and
        will probably require you to add the ``**unused`` field.

* The parameters to the callable version of ``build.workdir`` have changed.
  Instead of a single sourcestamp, a list of sourcestamps is passed. Each
  sourcestamp in the list has a different :ref:`codebase<Change-Attr-Codebase>`

* The undocumented renderable ``_ComputeRepositoryURL`` is no longer imported to
  :py:mod:`buildbot.steps.source`. It is still available at
  ``buildbot.steps.source.oldsource``.

* ``IProperties.render`` now returns a deferred, so any code rendering properties
  by hand will need to take this into account.

* ``baseURL`` has been removed in :bb:step:`SVN` to use just ``repourl`` - see
  :bug:`2066`. Branch info should be provided with ``Interpolate``. ::

    from buildbot.steps.source.svn import SVN
    factory.append(SVN(baseURL="svn://svn.example.org/svn/"))

  can be replaced with ::

    from buildbot.process.properties import Interpolate
    from buildbot.steps.source.svn import SVN
    factory.append(SVN(repourl=Interpolate("svn://svn.example.org/svn/%(src::branch)s")))

  and ::

    from buildbot.steps.source.svn import SVN
    factory.append(SVN(baseURL="svn://svn.example.org/svn/%%BRANCH%%/project"))

  can be replaced with ::

    from buildbot.process.properties import Interpolate
    from buildbot.steps.source.svn import SVN
    factory.append(SVN(repourl=Interpolate("svn://svn.example.org/svn/%(src::branch)s/project")))

  and ::

    from buildbot.steps.source.svn import SVN
    factory.append(SVN(baseURL="svn://svn.example.org/svn/", defaultBranch="branches/test"))

  can be replaced with ::

    from buildbot.process.properties import Interpolate
    from buildbot.steps.source.svn import SVN
    factory.append(SVN(repourl=Interpolate("svn://svn.example.org/svn/%(src::branch:-branches/test)s")))

* The ``P4Sync`` step, deprecated since 0.8.5, has been removed.  The ``P4`` step remains.

* The ``fetch_spec`` argument to ``GitPoller`` is no longer supported.
  ``GitPoller`` now only downloads branches that it is polling, so specifies a refspec itself.

* The format of the changes produced by :bb:chsrc:`SVNPoller` has changed: directory pathnames end with a forward slash.
  This allows the ``split_file`` function to distinguish between files and directories.
  Customized split functions may need to be adjusted accordingly.

* :ref:`WithProperties` has been deprecated in favor of :ref:`Interpolate`.
  `Interpolate` doesn't handle functions as keyword arguments.
  The following code using ``WithProperties`` ::

    from buildbot.process.properties import WithProperties
    def determine_foo(props):
        if props.hasProperty('bar'):
            return props['bar']
        elif props.hasProperty('baz'):
            return props['baz']
        return 'qux'
    WithProperties('%(foo)s', foo=determine_foo)

  can be replaced with ::

    from zope.interface import implementer
    from buildbot.interfaces import IRenderable
    from buildbot.process.properties import Interpolate
    @implementer(IRenderable)
    class determineFoo(object):
        def getRenderingFor(self, props):
            if props.hasProperty('bar'):
                return props['bar']
            elif props.hasProperty('baz'):
                return props['baz']
            return 'qux'
    Interpolate('%s(kw:foo)s', foo=determineFoo())

Changes for Developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``BuildStep.start`` can now optionally return a deferred and any errback will
  be handled gracefully. If you use ``inlineCallbacks``, this means that unexpected
  exceptions and failures raised will be captured and logged and the build shut
  down normally.

* The helper methods ``getState`` and ``setState`` from ``BaseScheduler`` have
  been factored into ``buildbot.util.state.StateMixin`` for use elsewhere.

Slave
-----

Features
~~~~~~~~

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The ``P4Sync`` step, deprecated since 0.8.5, has been removed.  The ``P4`` step remains.

Details
-------

For a more detailed description of the changes made in this version, see the
Git log itself:

.. code-block:: bash

   git log v0.8.6..v0.8.7

Older Versions
--------------

Release notes for older versions of Buildbot are available in the :src:`master/docs/relnotes/` directory of the source tree.
Starting with version 0.8.6, they are also available under the appropriate version at http://buildbot.net/buildbot/docs.
