Release Notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b3
==================================

The following are the release notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b3.
This version was released on October 18, 2015.

See :ref:`Upgrading to Nine` for a guide to upgrading from 0.8.x to 0.9.x

Master
------

Features
~~~~~~~~
* The irc command ``hello`` now returns 'Hello' in a random language if invoked more than once.

* :bb:sched:`Triggerable` now accepts a ``reason`` parameter.

* :bb:reporter:`GerritStatusPush` now accepts a ``builders`` parameter.

* :bb:reporter:`StatusPush` callback now receives build results (success/failure/etc) with the ``buildFinished`` event.

* There's a new renderable type, :ref:`Transform`.

* Buildbot now supports wamp as a mq backend.
  This allows to run a multi-master configuration.
  See :ref:`MQ-Specification`.

Fixes
~~~~~

* The :bb:step:`PyFlakes` and :bb:step:`PyLint` steps no longer parse output in Buildbot log headers (:bug:`3337`).

* :bb:chsrc:`GerritChangeSource` is now less verbose by default, and has a ``debug`` option to enable the logs.

* :bb:chsrc:`P4Source` no longer relies on the perforce server time to poll for new changes.

* The commit message for a change from :bb:chsrc:`P4Source` now matches what the user typed in.

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The :py:mod:`buildbot.status.results` module no longer exists and has been renamed to :py:mod:`buildbot.process.results`.

Slave
-----

Features
~~~~~~~~

* The Buildbot slave now includes the number of CPUs in the information it supplies to the master on connection.
  This value is autodetected, but can be overridden with the ``--numcpus`` argument to ``buildslave create-slave``.

Details
-------

For a more detailed description of the changes made in this version, see the git log itself:

.. code-block:: bash

   git log v0.9.0b2..v0.9.0b3

Older Versions
--------------

Release notes for older versions of Buildbot are available in the :src:`master/docs/relnotes/` directory of the source tree.
Newer versions are also available here:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    0.9.0b2
    0.9.0b1
    0.8.12
    0.8.10
    0.8.9
    0.8.8
    0.8.7
    0.8.6

Note that Buildbot-0.8.11 was never released.
