Release Notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b5
==================================


The following are the release notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b5
This version was released on January 20, 2016.

See :ref:`Upgrading to Nine` for a guide to upgrading from 0.8.x to 0.9.x

Master
------

Features
~~~~~~~~

* Builders ui page has improved tag filtering capabilities
* Home page enhanced with the list of recent builds sorted by builder
* :bb:reporter:`IRC` reporter has been partially ported to work on data api.

Fixes
~~~~~

* better stability and reliability in the UI thanks to switch to buildbot data-module
* fix irc

Changes for Developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* properties object is now directly present in build, and not in build_status.
  This should not change much unless you try to access your properties via step.build.build_status.
  Remember that with PropertiesMixin, you can access properties via getProperties on the steps, and on the builds objects.

* :ref:`WWW-data-module` is now integrated, which sets a definitive API for accessing buildbot data in angularJS UI.


Slave
-----

Features
~~~~~~~~

* The :class:`DockerLatentBuildSlave` image attribute is now renderable (can take properties in account).

* The :class:`DockerLatentBuildSlave` sets environment variables describing how to connect to the master.
  Example dockerfiles can be found in ``master/contrib/docker``.


Details
-------

For a more detailed description of the changes made in this version, see the git log itself:

.. code-block:: bash

   git log v0.9.0b4..v0.9.0b5

Older Versions
--------------

Release notes for older versions of Buildbot are available in the :src:`master/docs/relnotes/` directory of the source tree.
Newer versions are also available here:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 1

    0.9.0b4
    0.9.0b3
    0.9.0b2
    0.9.0b1
    0.8.12
    0.8.10
    0.8.9
    0.8.8
    0.8.7
    0.8.6

Note that Buildbot-0.8.11 was never released.
