Release Notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b2
==================================

..
    Any change that adds a feature or fixes a bug should have an entry here.
    Most simply need an additional bulleted list item, but more significant
    changes can be given a subsection of their own.

The following are the release notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b2.
Buildbot 0.9.0b2 was released on the 02nd of August, 2015.

Master
------

Features
~~~~~~~~

* Mercurial hook was updated and modernized.
  It is no longer necessary to fork.
  You can now extend PYTHONPATH via the hook config which allows you to use a buildbot-venv instead of installing buildbot to the system site-packages.
  Added documentation inside the hook.
  Misc. clean-up and reorganization in order to make the code a bit more readable.


* UI templates can now be customizable.
  You can provide html or jade overrides to the www plugins, end then customize your look and feel.

* UI side bar is now fixed by default for large screens.

Fixes
~~~~~

* Fix setup for missing www.hooks module

* Fix setup to install only on recent version of pip.
  This prevents unexpected upgrade to nine from people who just use ``pip install -U buildbot``

* Fix a crash in the git hook.

* add checks to enforce slavenames are identifiers.


Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Changes for Developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The :py:class:`~buildbot.config.BuilderConfig` ``nextSlave`` keyword argument takes a callable.
  This callable now receives :py:class:`~buildbot.process.buildrequest.BuildRequest` instance in its signature as 3rd parameter.
  **For retro-compatibility, all callable taking only 2 parameters will still work**.

* Data api provides a way to query the build list per slave.

* Data api provides a way to query some build properties in a build list.

Slave
-----

* buildbot-slave now requires python 2.6

Features
~~~~~~~~

* Schedulers: the ``codebases`` parameter can now be specified in a simple list-of-strings form.

Fixes
~~~~~

* Fix a race condition in the integration tests

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Providing Latent AWS EC2 credentails by the .ec2/aws_id file is deprecated:
  Instead, use the standard .aws/credentials file.

Details
-------

For a more detailed description of the changes made in this version, see the git log itself:

.. code-block:: bash

   git log v0.8.10..master

Older Versions
--------------

Release notes for older versions of Buildbot are available in the :src:`master/docs/relnotes/` directory of the source tree.
