Release Notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b9
==================================

The following are the release notes for Buildbot 0.9.0b9
This version was released on May 10, 2016.

See :ref:`Upgrading to Nine` for a guide to upgrading from 0.8.x to 0.9.x

Master
------

Features
~~~~~~~~

* new :bb:reporter:`GitLabStatusPush` to report builds results to GitLab.

* ``buildbot stop`` now waits for complete buildmaster stop by default.

* New ``--no-wait`` argument for ``buildbot stop`` which allows not to wait for complete master shutdown.

* Builder page is now sorted by builder name

* LogViewer page now supports ANSI color codes, and is displayed white on black.


Changes for Developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Speed improvements for integration tests by use of SynchronousTestCase, and in-memory sqlite.


* Buildbot now requires import to be sorted using `isort <https://readthedocs.org/projects/isort/>`_.
  Please run ``make isort`` before creating a PR or use any available editor plugin in order to reorder your imports.

Fixes
~~~~~

* OpenStackLatentWorker uses the novaclient API correctly now.

* The :bb:step:`MsBuild4` and :bb:step:`MsBuild12` steps work again (:bug:`2878`).

* Scheduler changes are now identified by serviceid instead of objectid (:bug:`3532`)

* Make groups optional in LdapUserInfo (:bug:`3511`)

* Buildbot nine do not write pickles anymore in the master directory

* Fix build page to not display build urls, but rather directly the build-summary, which already contain the URL.

* UI Automatically reconnect on disconnection from the websocket. (:bug:`3462`)

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The buildmaster now requires at least Twisted-14.0.1.

* The web ui has upgrade its web components dependencies to `latest versions <https://github.com/buildbot/guanlecoja-ui/tree/master#changelog>`_.
  This can impact web-ui plugin.

* Web server does not provide /png and /redirect anymore (:bug:`3357`).
  This functionality is used to implement build status images.
  This should be easy to implement if you need it.
  One could port the old image generation code, or implement a redirection to http://shields.io/.

* Support of worker-side ``usePTY`` was removed from ``buildbot-worker``.
  ``usePTY`` argument was removed from ``WorkerForBuilder`` and ``Worker`` classes.

* html is no longer permitted in 'label' attributes of forcescheduler parameters.

* ``LocalWorker`` now requires ``buildbot-worker`` package, instead of ``buildbot-slave``.

* :ref:`Collapse-Request-Functions` now takes master as first argument.
  The previous callable contained too few data in order to be really usable.
  As collapseRequests has never been released outside of beta, backward compatibility with previous release has **not** been implemented.

* This is the last version of buildbot nine which supports python 2.6 for the master.
  Next version will drop python 2.6 support.

Worker
------

Fixes
~~~~~

* ``buildbot-worker`` script now outputs message to terminal.

* Windows helper script now called ``buildbot-worker.bat`` (was ``buildbot_worker.bat``, notice underscore), so that ``buildbot-worker`` command can be used in virtualenv both on Windows and POSIX systems.

Changes for Developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* ``SLAVEPASS`` environment variable is not removed in default-generated ``buildbot.tac``.
  Environment variables are cleared in places where they are used (e.g. in Docker Latent Worker contrib scripts).

* Master-part handling has been removed from ``buildbot-worker`` log watcher (:bug:`3482`).

* ``WorkerDetectedError`` exception type has been removed.

Details
-------

For a more detailed description of the changes made in this version, see the git log itself:

.. code-block:: bash

   git log v0.9.0b8..v0.9.0b9
