Release Notes
=============

..
    Any change that adds a feature or fixes a bug should have an entry here.
    Most simply need an additional bulleted list item, but more significant
    changes can be given a subsection of their own.

The following are the release notes for Buildbot |version|.

Master
------

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* Forced builds now require that a :bb:sched:`ForceScheduler` be defined in the
  Buildbot configuration.  For compatible behavior, this should look like::

    from buildbot.schedulers.forcesched import ForceScheduler
    c['schedulers'].append(ForceScheduler(
                            name="force",
                            builderNames=["b1", "b2", ... ]))

  Where all of the builder names in the configuration are listed.  See the
  documentation for the *much* more flexiblie configuration options now
  available.

* ``buildbot start`` no longer invokes make if a ``Makefile.buildbot`` exists.
  If you are using this functionality, consider invoking make directly.

* The ``buildbot sendchange`` option ``--username`` has been removed as
  promised in :bb:bug:`1711`.

* StatusReceivers' checkConfig method should now take an additional `errors`
  parameter and call its :py:meth:`~buildbot.config.ConfigErrors.addError`
  method to indicate errors.

* The gerrit status callback now gets an additional parameter (the master
  status).  If you use this callback, you will need to adjust its
  implementation.

* This is the last release of Buildbot that will be compatible with Python 2.4.
  The next version will minimally require Python-2.5.

* SQLAlchemy-Migrate version 0.6.0 is no longer supported.  See
  :ref:`Buildmaster-Requirements`.

* Older versions of SQLite which could limp along for previous versions of
  Buildbot are no longer supported.  The minimum version is 3.4.0, and 3.7.0 or
  higher is recommended.

Changes for Developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

* The interface for runtime access to the master's configuration has changed
  considerably.  See :doc:`developer/config` for more details.

* The DB connector methods ``completeBuildset``, ``completeBuildRequest``, and
  ``claimBuildRequest`` now take an optional ``complete_at`` parameter to
  specify the completion time explicitly.

* Buildbot now sports sourcestamp sets, which collect multiple sourcestamps
  used to generate a single build, thanks to Harry Borkhuis.  See
  :bb:pull:`287`.

Features
~~~~~~~~

* Buildbot can now take advantage of authentication done by a front-end web
  server - see :bb:pull:`266`.

* Buildbot supports a simple cookie-based login system, so users no longer need
  to enter a username and password for every request.  See the earlier commits
  in :bb:pull:`278`.

* The master-side SVN step now has an `export` method which is similar to
  `copy`, but the build directory does not contain Subversion metdata. (:bb:bug:`2078`)

* :py:class:`Property` instances will now render any properties in the
  default value if necessary.  This makes possible constructs like ::

    command=Property('command', default=Property('default-command'))

* Buildbot has a new web hook to handle push notifications from Google Code -
  see :bb:pull:`278`.

* Revision links are now generated by a flexible runtime conversion configured
  by :bb:cfg:`revlink` - see :bb:pull:`280`.

* Shell command steps will now "flatten" nested lists in the ``command``
  argument.  This allows substitution of multiple command-line arguments using
  properties.  See :bb:bug:`2150`.

* :py:class:`Trigger` steps with ``waitForFinish=True`` now receive a URL to
  all the triggered builds. This URL is displayed in the waterfall and build
  details. See :bb:bug:`2170`.

* The bb:src:`master/contrib/fakemaster.py`` script allows you to run arbitrary
  commands on a slave by emulating a master.  See the file itself for
  documentation.

Slave
-----

Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Features
~~~~~~~~

Details
-------

For a more detailed description of the changes made in this version, see the
git log itself::

   https://github.com/buildbot/buildbot/compare/buildbot-0.8.4...buildbot-0.8.5

Older Versions
--------------

Release notes for older versions of Buildbot are available in the
:bb:src:`master/docs/release-notes/` directory of the source tree, or in the archived
documentation for those versions at http://buildbot.net/buildbot/docs.
