What?  This doesn't look like a README!

Right, this is the TODO list for Buildbot-0.9.0.  We'll delete this once it's empty.  Pitch in!

# Infrastructure #

* Parsing of endpoint options is currently left to the endpoint, which will lead to inconsistencies.
  Add and document some helper methods to ``base.Endpoint`` for parsing e.g., boolean options (supporting on/off, 0/1, true/false, etc.)
* Optimize the type verification system by dynamically creating verifier functions once.
* Move `master/buildbot/test/interfaces/*` to `master/buildbot/test/unit`

# Documentation #

* Rename ``masters/docs/developer/database.rst`` to ``db.rst`` for consistency.
* Put update methods in the appropriate resource-type files, rather than in ``data.rst``
* Move data API how-to guides

# Data API #

For each resource type, we'll need the following (based on "Adding Resource Types" in ``master/docs/developer/data.rst``).  use this list as a template in the list of types below when you begin a new type.

* A resource-type module and class, with unit tests
* Docs for that resource type
* Type validators for the resource type
* New endpoints, with unit tests
* Docs for the endpoints
* Appropriate update methods, with unit tests
* Docs for those update methods
* Integrate with Buildbot: process classes should use the data API and not the DB or MQ APIs.

It's safe to leave tasks that have significant prerequisites - particularly the last point - commented as "TODO" in the source, with corresponding items added here.

## Remaining Resource Types ##

The outstanding resource types are:

* scheduler
* builder
* sourcestamp
* buildrequest
* build
* step
* logfile
* buildslave

## Other Resource-Type Related Tasks ##

* ``addBuildset`` currently sends messages about buildrequests directly.
  It should, instead, coordinate with the buildrequests resource type to do so.
* Add support for uids to the change resource type
* Define real masters, that check in periodically, and have individual IDs (blocked on 'Add a ``masters`` table')

## Misc Data API Work ##

* Paging, filtering, and so on of data API results.
* Factor ``self.assertEqual(self.master.mq.productions, [ .. ])`` into something that will assert and then flush

# Web #

## Infrastructure ##

* Build the router.js config dynamically on the master, either at startup or in upgrade-master.
* Dynamically download or proxy external resources, so they're not included in the Buildbot source or the tarball.
  This download can occur either at startup, or in upgrade-master.
* Minify and concatenate JS source at startup or upgrade-master.
  http://opensource.perlig.de/rjsmin/ may help here; it has a compatible license and is a single file.
* Add cache headers to the HTTP server, based on information encoded in the resource types regarding immutability and speed of change.

## Javascript ##

* Standardize on interCaps spellings for identifiers (method and variable names).

## Vague Ideas ##

These are just "things that need doing", where we don't have much idea *how* yet:

* i18n/l10n support so contributors can easily translate the web UI
* Use TastyPie as a model for a generic REST API library

# Database Updates #

We're deferring any changes to the database schema for as long as possible, because they are difficult to maintain on a branch.
So, they're listed here.

## Schema Changes ##

Don't include the schema changes needed to implement the status stuff here; those will come when we implement the status stuff.

* Remove ``is_dir`` from the changes table (and ignore/remove it everywhere else)
* Add a ``masters`` table
* Add a ``builders`` table

## DB API Changes ##

* Switch to use epoch time throughout the DB API.
* Use None/NULL, not -1, as the "no results yet" sentinel value in buildsets and buildrequests
* Make `completeBuildSet` return true if the database claims to have updated the row, and use that to narrow the race condition in `maybeBuildsetComplete`

## Documentation ##

* Document Buildbot's behavior for a DBA: isolation assumptions, dependencies on autogenerated IDs, read-after-write expectations, buildrequest claiming, buildset completion detection

# Later #

This section can hold tasks that don't need to be done by 0.9.0, but shouldn't be forgotten, and might be implemented sooner if convenient.

## Infrastructure ##

* Use some fancy algorithms to delay message transmission until the data is known-good in the database, for cases where the underlying database is asynchronously replicated.

## Documentation ##

* Document how to write a scheduler: the ``addBuildsetForXxx`` methods, as well as the proper procedure for listening for changes.
