Buildbot-0.3.5 was released 19 Sep 2003

** newcred

Buildbot has moved to "newcred", a new authorization framework provided by
Twisted, which is a good bit cleaner and easier to work with than the
"oldcred" scheme in older versions. This causes both buildmaster and
buildslaves to depend upon Twisted 1.0.7 or later. The interface to
'makeApp' has changed somewhat (the multiple kinds of remote connections all
use the same TCP port now).

Old buildslaves will get "_PortalWrapper instance has no attribute
'remote_username'" errors when they try to connect. They must be upgraded.

The FreshCVSSource uses PB to connect to the CVSToys server. This has been
upgraded to use newcred too. If you get errors (TODO: what do they look
like?) in the log when the buildmaster tries to connect, you need to upgrade
your FreshCVS service or use the 'useOldcred' argument when creating your
FreshCVSSource. This is a temporary hack to allow the buildmaster to talk to
oldcred CVSToys servers. Using it will trigger deprecation warnings. It will
go away eventually.

In conjunction with this change, makeApp() now accepts a password which can
be applied to the debug service.

** new features

*** "copydir" for CVS checkouts

The CVS build step can now accept a "copydir" parameter, which should be a
directory name like "source" or "orig". If provided, the CVS checkout is
done once into this directory, then copied into the actual working directory
for compilation etc. Later updates are done in place in the copydir, then
the workdir is replaced with a copy.

This reduces CVS bandwidth (update instead of full checkout) at the expense
of twice the disk space (two copies of the tree).

*** Subversion (SVN) support

Radix (Christopher Armstrong) contributed early support for building
Subversion-based trees. The new 'SVN' buildstep behaves roughly like the
'CVS' buildstep, and the contrib/svn_buildbot.py script can be used as a
checkin trigger to feed changes to a running buildmaster.

** notable bugfixes

*** .tap file generation

We no longer set the .tap filename, because the buildmaster/buildslave
service might be added to an existing .tap file and we shouldn't presume to
own the whole thing. You may want to manually rename the "buildbot.tap" file
to something more meaningful (like "buildslave-bot1.tap").

*** IRC reconnect

If the IRC server goes away (it was restarted, or the network connection was
lost), the buildmaster will now schedule a reconnect attempt.

*** w32 buildslave fixes

An "rm -rf" was turned into shutil.rmtree on non-posix systems.

