Buildbot 0.7.9 was released 15 Sep 2008

** New Features

*** Configurable public_html directory (#162)

The public_html/ directory, which provides static content for the WebStatus()
HTTP server, is now configurable. The default location is still the
public_html/ subdirectory of the buildmaster's base directory, but you can
change this by passing a suitable argument when creating the WebStatus()
instance in your master.cfg file:

  c['status'].append( WebStatus(8080, public_html="/var/www/buildbot") )

*** Lock access modes (#313)

Albert Hofkamp added code to provide two distinct access modes to Locks:
"counting" and "exclusive". Locks can accept a configurable number of
"counting"-mode users, or a single "exclusive"-mode. For example, a Lock is
defined with maxCount=3, and then a 'compile' BuildStep uses this lock in
counting mode, while a 'cleanup' BuildStep uses this lock in exclusive mode.
Then, there can be one, two, or three simultaneous Builds in the compile step
(as long as there are no builds in the cleanup step). Only one build can be
in the cleanup step at a time, and if there is such a build in the cleanup
step, then the compile steps in other builds will wait for it to finish.
Please see the "Interlocks" section of the user's manual for more details.

** Bugs Fixed

*** Buildslave missing_timeout= fired too quickly (#211)

By providing a missing_timeout= argument when creating the BuildSlave
instance, you can ask the buildmaster to send email if a buildslave is
disconnected for too long. A bug in the previous version caused this
notification to be sent too soon, rather than waiting until the timeout
period expired. This should be fixed now.

*** Test command display fixed (#332)

In the previous version, a steps.shell.Test step would display the parsed
test results (in the step's box on the waterfall display) in lieu of any
other descriptive text the step might provide. In this release, these two
pieces of information are combined.

** Minor Changes

The buildmaster's version is logged to its twistd.log file at startup. The
buildslave does the same, to its own logfile.

Remote commands now record how long each command took. The "elapsedTime="
message will appear in the step's main logfile.

The "buildbot restart" command no longer fails if the buildbot wasn't already
running.

The FileUpload and FileDownload steps now create their target directories
(and any missing intermediate directories) before writing to the destination
file.

The per-build and per-step web pages now show the start, finish, and elapsed
time of their build or step.

If a Subversion-based build is started with a mixture of Changes that specify
particular numeric revisions and "HEAD" Changes (which indicate that a trunk
checkout is desired), the build will use a trunk checkout. Previously this
would probably cause an error. It is not clear how this situation might
arise.

** Compability With Other Tools

The mercurial commit hook (buildbot.changes.hgbuildbot) in the previous
version doesn't work with hg-1.0 or later (it uses an API function that was
present in the hg-0.9.5 release, but was removed from hg-1.0). This
incompability has been fixed: the new version of buildbot should be
compatible with hg-1.0 and newer (and it probably retains compability with
hg-0.9.5 and earlier too). (#328)

The Git tool has traditionally provided two ways to run each command, either
as subcommands of /usr/bin/git (like "git checkout"), or as individual tools
(like /usr/bin/git-checkout). The latter form is being removed in the
upcoming 1.6 Git release. Previous versions of Buildbot have used the
git-checkout form, and will break when Git is upgraded to 1.6 or beyond. The
new Buildbot release switches to the subcommand form. Note that this is a
change on the buildslave side.

The Git checkout command will now use the default branch (as set in the
steps.source.Git() step definition) if the changes that it is building do not
specify some other branch to build. (#340)

** Deprecation Schedule

No features have been deprecated in this release, and no deprecated features
have been removed. As a reminder, the following deprecated features are
scheduled for removal in an upcoming release:

c['sources'] (plural) was replaced by c['change_source'] (singular) in 0.7.6,
and will be removed by 0.8.0.

c['bots'] was replaced by c['buildslaves'] in 0.7.6, and will be removed by
0.8.0 . c['bots'] only accepts BuildSlave instances, not name/passwd tuples.

The html.Waterfall status target was replaced by html.WebStatus in 0.7.6, and
will be removed by 0.8.0.

