Buildbot 0.8.4 was released 12 Jun 2010

** Buildmaster Metrics

The buildmaster now actively measures a number of quantities that can be useful
in debugging and tuning its performance.  See the documentation for more
information.

** Monotone support

Monotone support has returned to Buildbot, thanks to Richard Levitte.

** `Blocker` step

A "beta" version of the Blocker step has been added; this step allows multiple
concurrent builds to be synchronized.  It is "beta" in the sense that it may
contain significant bugs, is only documented in the source code, and has an
interface that is subject to non-compatible change in later versions of
Buildbot.  See `contrib/blockertest` for a test and demonstration of the new
step's functionality.

** Deprecations, Removals, and Non-Compatible Changes

*** Init script now uses /etc/default/buildmaster for instance configuration.
Also MASTER_ENABLED used in /etc/default/buildmaster now accepts 'true|yes|1'
to enable instance and 'false|no|0' to disable(not case sensitive). Other
values will be considered as syntax error.

*** 'buildbot.status.words.IRC' now defaults to `AllowForce=False` to prevent
IRC bots from being allowed to force builds by default.

*** MasterShellCommand and all of the transfer steps now default to
haltOnFailure=True and flunkOnFailure=True

*** GitPoller's 'workdir' parameter should always be supplied; using the
default (/tmp/gitpoller_work) is deprecated and will not be supported in future
versions.

*** ChangeFilter should now be imported from `buildbot.changes.filter'; the old
import path will still work.

*** What used to be called simply 'Scheduler' should now be instantiated as
'SingleBranchScheduler', and its branch argument is mandatory.

*** The Dependent scheduler is now in its own module,
'buildbot.schedulers.dependent', although the old name will continue to work.

*** The mergeRequests parameters are now more flexible, but an incompatible
change was made: if the BuilderConfig mergeRequests argument is explicitly set
to True, then the default merge method will be used.  In earlier versions, this
configuration fell back to the global c['mergeRequests'] parameter's value.  To
avoid this, remove `mergeRequests=True` from any BuilderConfig constructor
invocations.

*** The `Status.getBuildSets` method now returns its result via Deferred.

*** The `BuilderControl.getPendingBuilds` method has been renamed to
`getPendingBuildRequestControls`; `BuilderStatus.getPendingBuilds` has been
renamed to `getPendingBuildStatuses`.  Both now return their results via
Deferred.

*** The utility method `Builder.getOldesetRequestTime` now returns its result
via a Deferred, and that result is now a DateTime object.

*** The remote BuildSetStatus method `waitForSuccess` is no longer available.

*** The BuildRequestStatus methods `getSubmitTime` and `getSourceStamp` now
return their results via a Deferred.  The `asDict` method omits these values,
as it retuns synchronously.

*** Buildbot now uses temporary tables, which can cause problems with
replication in MySQL.  See "Database Specification" in the manual for more
details.

** Scheduler Improvements

*** Nightly scheduler now accepts a change_filter argument

** SQLAlchemy & SQLAlchemy-Migrate

Buildbot now uses SQLAlchemy as a database abstraction layer.  This gives
greater inter-database compatibility and a more stable and reliable basis for
this core component of the framework.  SQLAlchemy-Migrate is used to manage
changes to the database schema from version to version.

*** Postgres support

Buildbot should now work with a Postgres backend just as well as it does with
MySQL or SQLite.  Buildbot is actively tested against all three backends.

** Less garish color scheme

The default color scheme for Buildbot has been modified to make it slightly
less, well, neon. Note: This will not affect already-created masters, as
their default.css file has already been created. If you currently use the
default and want to get the new version, just overwrite public_html/default.css
with the copy in this version.

* Slave Changes

** Monotone support

Monotone support has returned to Buildbot, thanks to Richard Levitte.

** Buildslave now places all spawned commands into process groups on POSIX
systems.  This means that in most cases child processes are cleaned up
properly, and removes the most common use for usePTY.  As of this version,
usePTY should be set to False for almost all users of Buildbot.

** Init script now uses /etc/default/buildslave for instance configuration.
Also SLAVE_ENABLED used in /etc/default/buildslave now accepts 'true|yes|1'
to enable instance and 'false|no|0' to disable(not case sensitive). Other
values will be considered as syntax error.
