\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename buildbot.info
@include version.texinfo
@settitle BuildBot Manual - @value{VERSION}
@defcodeindex cs
@defcodeindex sl
@defcodeindex bf
@defcodeindex bs
@defcodeindex st
@defcodeindex bc
@c %**end of header

@c these indices are for classes useful in a master.cfg config file
@c @csindex : Change Sources
@c @slindex : Schedulers and Locks
@c @bfindex : Build Factories
@c @bsindex : Build Steps
@c @stindex : Status Targets

@c @bcindex : keys that make up BuildmasterConfig

@copying
This is the BuildBot manual for Buildbot version @value{VERSION}.

Copyright (C) 2005, 2006, 2009, 2010 Brian Warner

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without
modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty
provided the copyright notice and this notice are preserved.

@end copying

@titlepage
@title BuildBot
@subtitle @value{VERSION}
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@c Output the table of the contents at the beginning.
@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)
@top BuildBot

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Introduction::                What the BuildBot does.
* Installation::                Installing and setting up a Builbot system
* Concepts::                    What goes on in the buildbot's little mind.
* Configuration::               Controlling the buildbot.
* Getting Source Code Changes::  Discovering when to run a build.
* Build Process::               Controlling how each build is run.
* Status Delivery::             Telling the world about the build's results.
* Command-line Tool::           The 'buildbot' utility
* Resources::                   Getting help.

* Index of Useful Classes::
* Index of master.cfg keys::
* Index::                       Complete index.
@end menu

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@include introduction.texinfo

@node Installation
@chapter Installation
@include installation.texinfo

@node Concepts
@chapter Concepts
@include concepts.texinfo

@node Configuration
@chapter Configuration
@include configuration.texinfo

@node Getting Source Code Changes
@chapter Getting Source Code Changes
@include changesources.texinfo

@node Build Process
@chapter Build Process
@include buildprocess.texinfo

@node Status Delivery
@chapter Status Delivery
@include status.texinfo

@node Command-line Tool
@chapter Command-line Tool
@include cmdline.texinfo

@node Resources
@chapter Resources
@include resources.texinfo

@node Index of Useful Classes
@unnumbered Index of Useful Classes

This is a list of all user-visible classes. There are the ones that
are useful in @file{master.cfg}, the buildmaster's configuration file.
Classes that are not listed here are generally internal things that
admins are unlikely to have much use for.

A more complete collection of documentation from the source code itself is
available in the API documentation at
@uref{http://djmitche.github.com/buildbot/docs/}.

@heading Change Sources
@printindex cs

@heading Schedulers and Locks
@printindex sl

@heading Build Factories
@printindex bf

@heading Build Steps
@printindex bs

@heading Status Targets
@printindex st

@node Index of master.cfg keys
@unnumbered Index of master.cfg keys

This is a list of all of the significant keys in @code{master.cfg}. Recall that
@code{master.cfg} is effectively a small python program with exactly one
responsibility: create a dictionary named @code{BuildmasterConfig}.  The keys
of this dictionary are listed here. The beginning of the master.cfg file
typically starts with something like:

@example
BuildmasterConfig = c = @{@}
@end example

Therefore a config key of @code{change_source} will usually appear in
master.cfg as @code{c['change_source']}.

@printindex bc


@node Index
@unnumbered Index

@printindex cp


@bye
